Part 1. Antisemitism. This is a remarkable century which opened with the revolution and ended with the Apai way. Perhaps it will be called a century of rubbish. Chapter 1. Antisemitism. As an outrage to common sense. Any still considered an accident that Nazi ideology center around antisemitism and that Nazi policy consistently and uncompromisingly aim at the persecution and finally the extermination of the Jews. Only the horror of the final catastrophe and even more humbleness and uprootedness of the survivors made the Jewish question so prominent in our everyday political life. What the Nazis themselves claim to be their chief discovery, the role of the Jewish people in war politics and their chief interest, persecution of Jews all over the world have been regarded by public opinion as a pretext for winning the masses or an interesting device of demagogy. The failure to take seriously what the Nazis themselves said is comprehensively enough. There is hardly an aspect of contemporary history more irritating and mystifying that the fact that of all the great unsolved political questions of our century it should have been the seemingly small and unimportant Jewish problem that had the dubious honor of setting the whole infernal machine in motion. Such discrepancies between cause and effect outrage our common sense to say nothing of the historians sense of balance and harmony. Compared with the events themselves all explanations of antisemitism look as if they had been hastily and hazardously contrived to cover up an issue which so gravely threatens our sense of proportion and our hope for sanity. One of these hasty explanation has been the identification of antisemitism with rampant nationalism and its xenophobic outburst. Unfortunately the fact is that modern antisemitism grew in proportion as traditional nationalist decline and reached its climax and at the exact moment when the European system of nation states and its precarious balance of power crashed. It has already been noticed that the Nazis were not simple nationalists. Their nationalist propaganda was directed towards their fellow travelers and not their convinced members. The latter on the contrary were never allowed to lose side of a consistently supernational approach to politics. Nazi nationalism had more than one aspect in common with the recent nationalistic propaganda in the Soviet Union which is also used only to feed the prejudices of the masses. The Nazis had a genuine and never revoked contempt for the narrowness of nationalism, the provisionalism of the nation state and they repeated time and again that their movement international in scope like the Bolshevik movement was more important to them than any state which would necessarily be bound to a specific territory. And not only the Nazis but 50 years of antisemitic history stand as evidence against the identification of antisemitism with nationalism. The first antisemitic parties in the first that band together internationally. From the very beginning they call international congresses and were concerned with a coordination of international or at least inter -eupian activities. General trends like the coincident decline of the nation state and the growth of antisemitism can hardly ever be explained satisfactorily by one reason or by one cause alone. The historian is in most such cases confronted with a very complex historical situation where he is almost at liberty and that means at a loss to isolate one factor at the spirit of the time. There are however a few helpful general rules foremost among them for our purpose is Tocqueville's great discovery of the motives for the violent hatred felt by the French masses for the aristocracy at the outbreak of the revolution. A hatred which stimulated Burke to remark that the revolution was more concerned with the condition of a gentleman than with the institution of a king. According to Tocqueville the French people hated aristocrats about to lose their power more than it had ever hated them before precisely because the rapid loss of real power was not accompanied by any considerable decline in their fortunes. As long as the aristocracy held vast powers of jurisdiction they were not only tolerated by respect. When noblemen lost their privileges among others the privilege to exploit and oppress the people felt them to be parasites without any real function in the rule of the country. In other words neither oppression nor exploitation as such is ever the main cause of resentment. Wealth without visible function is much more intolerable because nobody can understand why it should be tolerated. Antisemitism reached its climax when Jews had similarly lost their public functions and their influence and were left with nothing but their wealth. When Hitler came to power the German banks were already almost juden reign and it was here that Jews had held key positions for more than a hundred years and German Jewry as a whole after a long steady growth in social status and numbers was declining so rapidly that statistician predicted its disappearance in a few decades. The statistics it is true do not necessarily point to real historical processes yet it is noteworthy that to a statistician Nazi persecution an extermination could look like a senseless acceleration of a process which would probably have come about in any case. The same holds true for nearly all western european countries that the frost affair exploded not under the second empire when french jury was at the height of its prosperity and influence but under the third Reich public when Jews had all but vanished from important positions though not from the political scene. Austrian antisemitism became violent not under the reign of maternich and Franz Joseph but in the post war Austrian republic when it was perfectly obvious that hardly any other group had suffered the same loss of influence and prestige through the disappearance of the Habsburg monarchy. Persecution of powerless or power losing groups might not be a very pleasant spectacle but it does not spring from human meanness alone. What makes men obey or tolerate real power and on the other hand hey people who have wealth without power is the rational instinct that power has a certain function and needs of some general use. Even exploitation and oppression still make society work and establish some kind of order only wealth without power or aloofness without a policy are felt to be parasitical useless revolting because such conditions could hold the thread which tie men together. Wealth which does not exploit lacks even the relationship which exists between exploiter and exploited. Aloofness without policy does not imply even the minimum concern of the oppressor for the oppressed. The general decline of western and central european jury however constitute merely the atmosphere in which the subsequent events took place. The decline itself explains them as little as the mere loss of power by the aristocracy would explain the french revolution. To be aware of such general rules is important only in order to refute those recommendations of common sense which led us to believe that violent hatred or sudden rebellion spring necessarily from great power and great abuses and that consequently organized hatred of the jews cannot but be a reaction to their importance and power. More serious because because it appeals to much better people is another common sense fallacy. The jews because they were an entirely powerless group caught up in the general and insolvable conflicts of the time could be blamed for them and finally be made to appear the hidden authors of all evil. The best illustration and the best refutation of this explanation dear to the hearts of many liberals is in a joke which was told after the first war war. An antisemite claimed that the jews had caused the war. The reply was yes the jews and the bicyclist. Why the bicyclist? Asked the one. Why the jews? Asked the other. The theory that the jews are always the scapegoat implies that the scapegoat might have been anyone else as well. It upholds the perfect innocence of the victim. An innocence which insinuates not only that no evil was done but that nothing at all was done which might possibly have a connection with the issue at stake. It is true that the scapegoat theory in its purely arbitrary form never appears in print. Whenever however its adherents painstakingly try to explain why specific scapegoat was so well suited to his role they show that they have left the theory behind them and have got themselves involved in the usual historical research where nothing is ever discovered except that that history is made by many groups and that for certain reason one group was single out. The so -called scapegoat necessarily sees to be the innocent victim
