Preface to the first edition, written out of the conviction that it should be possible to discover the hidden mechanisms by which all traditional elements of our political and spiritual war were dissolved into a conglomeration where everything seems to have lost specific value and has become unrecognizable for human comprehension, unusable for human purpose. To yield to the mere process of disintegration has become an irresistible temptation, not only because it has assumed this furious grandeur of historical necessity, but also because everything outside has begun to appear lifeless, loveless, meaningless and unreal. The conviction that everything that happens on earth must be comprehensible to man can lead to interpreting history by common places. Comprehension does not mean denying the outrageous, deducing the unprecedented from precedents or explaining phenomena by such analogies and generalities that the impact of reality and the shock of experience are no longer felt. It means rather examining and varying consciously the word in which our sentry has placed on us. Neither denying its existence nor submitting meekly to its weight. Comprehension, in short, means the unpermeditated, attentive, facing up to and resisting of reality whatever it might be. In this sense, it must be possible to face and understand the outrageous fact that so small and in war politics so unimportant, a phenomenon as the Jewish question and antisemitism could become the catalytic agent for first the Nazi movement, then a world war. And finally, the establishment of death factories or the grotesque disparity between cause and effect which introduced the era of imperialism. When economic difficulties led in a few decades to a profound transformation of political conditions all over the world or the curious contradiction between the totalitarian movements about cynical realism and their conspicuous disdain of the whole texture of reality or the irritating incompatibility between the actual power of modern man greater than ever before, greater point where he might challenge the very existence of his own universe and the impotence of modern man to live in and understand the sense of a war which their own strength has established. The totalitarian attempt at global conquest and total domination has been the destructive way out of all emphasis. Its victory might coincide with the destruction of humanity. Whatever it has ruled, it has begun to destroy the essence of man, yet to turn our backs on the destructive forces of the century is of little avail. The trouble is that our period has so strangely intertwined the good with the bad that without the imperialist expansion for expansion's sake, the war might never have become one. Without the perverse political devise of power for power's sake, the extent of human strength might never have been discovered. Without the fictitious word of totalitarian movements in which with unparalleled clarity the essential uncertainties of our time have been spelled out, we might have been driven to our doom without ever becoming aware of what has been happening and if it is true that in the final stages of totalitarian terrorism an absolute evil appears, absolute because it can no longer be deduced from humanly comprehensible motives, it is also true that without it we might never have known the truly radical nature of evil. Antisemitism, not merely the hatred of Jews, imperialism, not merely conquest, totalitarianism, not merely dictatorship, one after the other, one more brutally than the other have demonstrated that human dignity needs a new guarantee which can be found only in a new political principle, in a new law on earth whose validity this time must comprehend the whole of humanity while its power must remain strictly limited, rooted in and controlled by newly defined territorial entities. We can no longer afford to take that which was good in the past and simply call it our our heritage, to discard the bad and simply think of it as dead load which by itself time will bury an oblivion. The subterranean stream of western history has finally come to the surface and has served the dignity of our tradition, this is the reality in which we live and this is why all efforts to escape from the grimness of the present into nostalgia for a still intact past or into the anticipated oblivion of a better future are bane.
