Chapter 2. The Jews, the nation -state and the birth of anti -Semitism. The equivocalities of emancipation and the Jewish state bunker p .n. the height of its development in the 90th century. The nation -state granted its Jewish inhabitants a quality of rights. Deeper, older and more faithful contradictions are hidden behind the abstract and palpable inconsistencies that Jews receive their citizenship from governments which in the process of centuries have made nationality a prerequisite for citizenship and homogeneity of population, the outstanding characteristic of the body politic. The series of emancipation edicts which slowly and hesitantly followed the edict of 1792 had been preceded and were accompanied by an equivocal attitude toward its Jewish inhabitants on the part of the nation -state. The breakdown of the feudal order had given rise to the new revolutionary concept of equality, according to which a nation within the nation could no longer be tolerated. Jewish restrictions and privileges had to be abolished together with all other special rights and liberties. This growth of equality, however, depended largely upon the growth of an independent state machine which either has an enlightened despotism or has a constitutional government above all classes and parties, could in splendid isolation function rule and represent the interests of the nation as a whole. Therefore, beginning with the late 17th century, an unprecedented need arose for a state credit and a new expansion of the state's sphere of economic and business interests while no group among the European population was prepared to grant credit to the state or take an active part in the development of state business. It was only natural that the Jews with their age -old experience as money lenders and their connections with European nobility to whom they frequently owed local protection and for whom they used to handle financial matters would be called upon for help. It was clearly in the interest of the new state business to grant the Jews certain privileges and to treat them as a separate group. Under no circumstances could the state afford to see them wholly assimilated into the rest of the population, which refused credit to the state, was reluctant to enter and to develop businesses owned by the state and follow the routine pattern of private capitalistic enterprise. Emancipation of the Jews, therefore, as granted by the national state system in Europe during the 90th century, had a double origin and an ever -present equivocal meaning. On the one hand, it was due to the political and legal structure of a new body politic which could function only under the conditions of political and legal equality. Governments, for their own sake, had to iron out the inequalities of the old order as completely and as quickly as possible. On the other hand, it was the clear result of a gradual extension of specific Jewish privileges granted originally only to individuals, then through them to a small group of well -to -do Jews. Only when this limited group could no longer handle by themselves the ever -growing demands of state business were these privileges finally extended to the whole of Western and Central Europeans' jury. Thus, at the same time and in the same countries, emancipation meant equality and privileges, the destruction of the old Jewish community autonomy and the conscious preservation of the Jews as a separate group in society, the abolition of special restrictions and special rights, and the extinction of such rights to a growing group of individuals. A quality of condition for all nationals had become the premise of the new body politic and while these equality had actually been carried out at least to the extent of depriving the old ruling classes of their privileges to govern and the all -opera class of the right to be protected, the process coincided with the birth of the class society which again separated the nationals economically and socially as efficiently as the old regime. Equality of conditions as the Jekovians had understood it in the French Revolution became a reality only in America whereas on the European continent it was at once replaced by a mere formal equality before the law. The fundamental contradiction between a political body based on equality before the law and a society based on the inequality of the class system prevented the development of functioning republics as well as the birth of a new political hierarchy. An insurmountable inequality of social conditions to the modern historian rights and liberties granted the court Jews during the 70th and 80th century might appear to be only the forerunners of equality. Courage Jews could leave whatever they liked they were permitted to travel freely within the realm of their sovereign they were allowed to bear arms and had right to special protection from local authorities. Actually these court Jews, characteristically called general privilegerity Juden and Prussia, not only enjoyed better living conditions than their fellow Jews who still lived under almost medieval restrictions but they were better off than their non -Jewish neighbors. Their standard of living was much higher than that of the contemporary middle class. Their privileges in most cases were greater than those granted to the merchants nor did these situations keep the attention of their contemporaries. Christian Woldem Dom, the outstanding advocate of Jewish emancipation in the 80th century, Prussia complained of the practice enforced since the time of Frederick William I which granted which Jews all sorts of favors and support often at the expense of and with neglect of diligent legal that is non -Jewish citizens.
